hi this video shows how to redo the
foundation chain if you've made it too
tight my swatch was made with double
crochets you'll need a tapestry needle
threaded with your yarn I'm using a
contrasting yarn for demonstration only
a hook a size or two larger than what
you use for your work and scissors to
start with you'll need to send your
needle through the bottom of your chain
three that counted as your first double
crochet and then through the bottom of
each of the double crochet stitches of
your first row the the work is turned so
that the first row the front side of the
stitches is showing is facing you
so keep at it making sure you only get
the bottom of your stitches
okay now that you have it all the way
through pull your yarn all the way
through your work so you've got your
original chain plus your new yarn my
baby that was my two year old so now
you're gonna cut the chain there
original chain be careful not to cut
more than just your original chain make
sure that you cut the chain a inch or
two away from the end so that it will
leave a tail long enough to weave in
later so use your needle to help undo
the portion of the chain that's close to
where you started
for the rest of the foundation chain you
can undo it or I find it easier to just
snip the foundation chain and pull the
little pieces off
and make sure you only snip the original
chain don't cut anything else
don't cut the bottom of your double
crochets don't cut the new yarn that you
just put in only cut the original chain
and remove all the little pieces
okay so now you have a new yarn running
through all of the bottoms of your
double crochets making sure that the
front side is still showing spend the
work until the bottoms of the double
crochet stitches are facing up making
now you make a slipknot at the end of
your new yarn and pull it snug to your
work so you reach between the next two
double crochets and pull the new yarn
through your loop then spread your
stitches out so you can reach between
the next two double crochets and pull it
through your loop and repeat that until
you reach the end of your row make sure
that your new teen is not too tight
I don't have a third arm that's again my
two-year-old
so there we have it
a new foundation chain to replace an old
one that may have been too tight thanks
for watching I'm Texas cricket on
Ravelry subscribe to my channel for more
innovations in crochet